hi everyone
and welcome to my second ever linkedin
live
doing a sam's business growth show and
delighted to be joined by
shabri lakani today and she's the
founder and ceo over at salesworks
shadri how are you doing
i'm doing well thank you sam thanks for
having me great to be here
no i appreciate it and excited to chat
through all things
sales business growth um and learn some
of the
both digital marketing and some of the
offline strategies that you've
utilized to grow your own company um
i'll just do a very quick
intro on your good self um so understand
you've got 10 years of experience within
inside sales and sales development
and where you spent seven years one of
the largest fintechs in europe
uh finastra uh we've grown a team from
two to fifty
people whilst creating revenue
generating inside sales team closing
around three million
annually um in 2018 shabu started sales
works
which is a global training consulting
firm working with b2b software companies
from seed
to scaling focused on sales team
development
and it's reimagined the legacy approach
to training and
very recently i understand the cell the
the company's been acquired
so congratulations on that great news so
looking forward
to it looking forward to chatting
through that so yeah let's let's jump
right in
as a start it'd be great to get a bit of
background on yourself so how you first
got into sales
um and the business world in general and
perhaps you could share with us a few
actionable tips
that you picked up along the way being
sales marketing or business in general
yeah absolutely and so as you mentioned
i've got about 10 years experience
within the world of sales and so i
actually started my career at finastra
which is how i started got into sales
i started as a sales development rep and
it wasn't really a thing back then
and so i remember telling my friends who
were starting careers in
banks and law firms and pr agencies that
i was going to be in fbr
and um i kind of got a lot of blank
looks on on their faces
and so i decided that i wanted to do
something within the financial industry
and and sales was seemed like a
good place for me to start for me to
build a full skill set
and actually one thing that's not on my
linkedin and a lot of people don't know
about me that that wasn't my first place
to fail
um my foundation sales was actually um
between the summer of my second and
third year at university
and i went over to the us and i picked
the hottest state so i went over to
arizona
and i actually did a summer of
door-to-door selling
um which is actually um probably
the toughest sales role like i've ever
ever done i mean daughter or selling in
45 degree heat
and where you're selling educational
books
um and you kind of map out the
roads that you're gonna go down and you
know how you're gonna start selling
it was definitely one of the challenging
most challenging roles i've ever done
and i think it taught me a hell of a lot
and my fbi role at vanessa was very
different to that
so uh the kind of chalk and cheese yeah
yeah financial software but yeah that's
that that's a fun fact about me
awesome and i bet daughters are saying
like you say let alone in the uk it's
gonna be hard enough
or being in the blazing heat must have
been an absolute mission so
were there some um some things you
picked up if it was your first taste in
sales what were some of the the lessons
you learned whilst you were doing that
chabri
so i think planning was just so key like
you can't just
walk down a road and just knock on
everyone's door right and it's it's
it's amazing to see how much of that is
transferable from what i did then
to even how we sell now right so you
think about the road you think about
who your ideal customer profile is it's
someone with children
it's someone who's trying to keep their
children distracted during the summer
you think about your addressable market
so i used to have a little piece of
paper and i used to mark down
people's houses and you know ask for a
referral so you know if i speak to
someone the same way that we would now
and so you know some of the lessons that
i learned was kind of that
first 30 seconds and that you know
you're opening someone's opening their
door to their
their home to you um and that first
10 seconds 20 seconds 30 seconds is so
important
of how you present yourself and how you
communicate
and how you actually build relationships
and
you know those are all transferable
things that you know i took with me as i
went into kind of the world of b2b sales
as well
um but also the other thing that i
learned which is you know
pivotal for sales and what we do now is
how you ask questions
right um and it was it was so funny
because overall
we were doing our training you know they
said you can't just knock on the door
and say do you have kids like how creepy
does that sound
right it's like yeah
so how you ask questions you know
open-ended questions
um and how you kind of go through
discovery and how you genuinely
um are trying to find out useful
information about people that's again
another lesson that i learned
um that you know is um and don't push
right like
i think dorsal selling is so hard um and
i haven't done it since um but you know
door-to-door selling is is really
difficult so
just kind of understanding how you deal
with resilience and how you deal i have
doors slams in my face
right how do you deal with that um and
it's the same as having
you know the frame sit down on you and
everything like that so dealing with the
resilience i think
was something i learned um a huge amount
about that summer i think i learned tons
about myself
too but um it was
it's challenging those are some some
awesome points so we started with
working out your ideal customer
just like you say what was it you were
selling exactly did you say educational
books there shall be
yeah so we did books all the way from um
sort of preschool all the way
up to um like the sat which in the uk's
a level
um stage the kind of anything aimed from
a two-year-old to
a 17-year-old we had everything got it
okay so in your case you had to map out
exactly where i guess the families lived
in the area so the target market that
was relevant to the product you're
offering
um and then you mentioned work the first
30 seconds
are crucial so can we dive into that a
bit deeper as in what exactly you mean
absolutely so i think um you know
there's a ton of research that shows you
know people make judgments of you in
you know milliseconds right but you've
really got about six seconds to make the
first impression
and so you know it was 45 degrees heat
so you know you've kind of been peter
and shorts and you've got a big backpack
with a couple of samples books
in front of you right and um you know
i think also i was british as well they
knew i wasn't local
so kind of coming in with this british
accent and so
you know if i got a referral it was a
lot easier because i could say you know
hey i was just speaking to sam at number
36 and he mentioned that i'm working
on me coming in to you know see how you
guys are doing
um and how you're keeping your kids
entertained in the summer it was really
difficult to do that cold and
you know really difficult when someone
starts yelling at you saying
you know like how dare you knock up my
door and
you know what are you doing here and i
think it's just kind of again
you know that overcoming those
objections how do you deal with that in
not being in a pushy way
it's difficult it's just it's a lot
different i think when you're calling
someone and they say i'm not interested
when you're looking at the whites of
someone's eyes at their front door and
they're saying i'm not interested go
away
um i think it's just important to
maintain that composure and sort of
progress that conversation with with
confidence as well
yeah and that makes sense and then
another awesome point that you raised
was
it's about how you ask questions so a
lot of people that are tuning in
whether they're watching live or whether
they're listening in or watching the
video
and might not understand the importance
of asking great questions and that
is a really solid way to build
confidence with your prospective
customers and your buyers
and so in this case how did how did that
work because you know um as we were
saying earlier shall we you couldn't
just go there straight away and say look
do you guys have kids could they
probably slam your door yeah
or call the local authorities so how how
can we ease it in how can we build
rapport are there any ways that you
found have been useful to be able to
build rapport with your ideal customers
and then be able to ask some of the
tougher questions that can
give us the information we need to be
able to qualify if this customer is
going to be able to do business with us
or not yeah absolutely i think it's
something that
i think had i done that had i done that
role today
i think i'd approach it a little bit
differently because i think we're in a
world now where
everything's at our fingertips you know
amazon's um
sort of people don't really like buy
door-to-door anymore right so i think
the competition's higher i think the
need to stand out is a lot more i think
personalization is key
and so i think building rapport you're
kind of going into
someone's house i think you know the
same way that people make judgments
about us
i think we can make judgments about
people and how they're going to react so
if if someone opens the door and they've
got a big smile on their face and
you know often you know there were times
which it was easy
someone would open the door and they'd
have a you know five-year-old child
wrapped around their leg and so you can
kind of use that
to start the conversation or a dog in
the background or you could hear
children
and or you could make conversation about
something you saw in their front garden
or something like that and often when
there was nothing
um you know the way that i'd be able to
go in is just say you know
um hey good morning and i was actually
just talking to sam
next door and i thought i'd come and you
know
pay you a visit and introduce myself as
well i think when it comes to
questioning
um in sales you know we do a lot of
training of sales teams
and one of the things that we spend a
lot of time training on
is wide net questions and asking those
wide out questions to elicit longer
responses so
if i say to you um you know hey sam are
you having a good day
you've got two answers you've got yes or
no right but if i say
hey sam you know how tuesday started
it's just
it's the same question but just asking
it in a different way you're
much more likely to give me a longer
response um
and another reason why that question is
quite good is because it
is likely for you to share what's going
on in your day so if i knocked on your
door and i said you know hey sam has
tuesday started
you know you might say you know it's um
it's been a nightmare
i've had the kids you know the kids
running around and that's great because
i can say
you know well actually you know what are
you doing this summer to keep your kids
entertained
and and that sort of thing so it opens
up the conversation a little bit more
and i think the what and how
questions that we asked and failed are
so important
um sales people often think why
questions are good and actually we tend
to advise
people keeping away from why questions
because they can sound a little bit
um accusatory and people can get a bit
defensive
um so you know the what and how
questions and it's so simple because i
think most questions you ask it's just
really easy to kind of switch that into
a rook and how question
to get longer responses from them from
your prospects
got it okay so using open-ended
questions as a initial
starter to start building rapport and
building off that got it
awesome okay so start off with door
knocking what was what was next up for
you shadri what was the next role you
got into
yeah so then i started um at a company
at the time it was called myself now
it's called finaster it grew by um
by merger and acquisition but um i
started there as an sdr
so i did just on the 18 months there as
an seo
um calling banks and financial
institutions
and selling enterprise financial
technology
um and that was it was a great role
like it taught me a lot about sales i
got familiar with
just communication and prospecting the
sales process
and so that that was a really good role
i felt for me to
start with and sort of build and build
my confidence and in the industry and
the products and sales really
and after that i then they wanted to
grow the team
um and so i took on my first manager
role um
at the age of 22. um so i um
i got promoted to the team lead for
europe and america so that was initially
the
the focus regions that we wanted to grow
out and
so then after that and they saw some
success in
those regions and they wanted to move to
some of the more emerging markets so
middle east africa and asia pacific
um and so i moved to dubai for three
years
um and i spent three years out in the
region
focusing on middle east africa and asia
and i then came back from dubai and
spent another two years in london
um and i then um sort of rebuilt and
grew the team again
um for inside thousand and sales
development and then in 2018
i left so that was kind of a snapshot of
my career
at finasteria yeah got it so finastro
you've you grew quite a big team didn't
you so it started around
two if i remember right and then you
grew that up to 50.
so and it was pretty short space of time
really around seven years or so
and like you say you were selling to all
different countries so
how we were able to make that happen
chabri what what was that what were some
of the secrets
that enabled you to grow so fast
yeah good question so you know i think
at the start
what we realized was um there was no
process and there was no structure
so a lot of the initial things that i
did was just
building out you know some of the basic
things around alignment between
marketing and development between sales
and sales development
and but in order for the team to grow
and team to scale
like that process have to be reputable
one of the things that took a huge
amount of time requiring
um and hiring at when you're hiring
graduates with little to no experience
and you're hiring on
raw talent it's really difficult we
spent a ton of time
hiring and training and so one of the
things that i had to change to
allow me to to grow that team so rapidly
was um just to actually start hiring in
cohort
fire once or twice a year so moving away
from hiring two people a month three
people for next month three people the
next month
we just hired in bulk so it meant that
there was two points of the year which
were
just crazy busy but hiring 15 people at
a time or 20 people at a time
onboarding them all together and
massively
increased the efficiency and
productivity of that process so instead
of onboarding being this whole
monstrous eight-week program it was a
two-week intensive boot camp style
training
and so on the hiring and onboarding side
that's where we saw a lot of a lot of
quick wins really
got it okay so hiring in bulk and this
is always a tricky one that i like to
ask
business owners that come on chevrolet
um are there any tips or insights you've
got so for anyone tuning in that
is perhaps thinking of building up their
sales staff or their staff in general
um i've always found hiring sales guys
or girls to be very
difficult because they quite often talk
the talk or walk the walk on the
interview
they say yeah last last month i closed i
don't know 20 30 grand but i was
three times over quota and um yeah
did this did that but then it comes to
the crunch they've been working you for
a few months
and uh they're knowing near what they
said they were gonna hit they're not
making the dials or they're not sending
the emails or not putting the activity
and they're just not getting the sales
revenue
so if you've got any um any ideas that
you could share that have worked for you
in terms of how you can kind of
differentiate the blaggers
from the uh achievers
yeah i love that that's such a good
question and i actually recently wrote a
blog on this
and one of the things that i like to do
in hiring and i think
i've seen a number of companies move
toward doing this is actually including
a written assessment
and a written assignment as part of the
interview process
and and i think that that
shows drive it shows someone's ability
to like actually want and desire to want
the job
and i love that you call them bloggers
because we all see these in sales right
when they're like you know i'm great at
this i'm great at that
and so having a written assignment i
think i think achieves a couple of
things i think firstly it shows
someone's passion for the role
i think we often forget that when we're
interviewing people they're also
interviewing us
like it's such a competitive market
right now they're probably interviewing
at three four five different companies
so getting someone to invest you know 30
to 45 minutes to do a written assignment
and actually
sit down and have a think about
something i think does
start to eliminate the bloggers from the
you know from the high performers
and what that typically looks like and
how i've used it in the past is to ask
someone to
go on the website think about a persona
that they would target
and actually draft an email to a persona
and what i'm looking for there is not
necessarily the right or perfect answer
but i'm looking at
how someone approaches that um i'm
looking at written communication i think
written communication
personally i find it's quite difficult
to coach people i think there are a ton
of things that you can train and coach
people on
i think written communication is one of
the ones that
i think is harder i think it's innate
and how people kind of develop
that and but i also think it shows
creativity and how people
think right um is that someone that you
want to put in front of a client is that
someone that you want to
like let manage your um you know key
accounts
think about like how they're going to
approach that and manage
expectations on time and say look this
is going to take you about 30 to 45
minutes
some people won't do it right but that's
going to save you
time and it just eliminates them out
from the process and if they don't do it
that's fine
and so i think you know the point that
you raised for something i've
experienced before is just the talkers
but actually when it comes to doing they
don't do anything
so this for me has been quite a key um
point in the interview process um and if
there's any business owners out there
like i
completely understand how important it
is to get your new hires right when it's
your own business you know risk is a lot
um is a lot higher and you don't
necessarily have enough rights of risk
so um i'd encourage companies to you
know try that out and
um you know think about it there was one
i read last week that someone said
um you know they asked people to come in
and present something
on a topic that that they know more
about
than people who are interviewing um
which is really great right because
it kind of makes you think like if i was
what do i know more about them
and how do i go and present that right
and so there are a ton of different
exercises and assessments that you can
do but i think you know i'd encourage
um uh people to start to think about how
they embed that in their process
that's a really interesting point and
something i've not heard before so the
written assessment i love um because
like you say it's gonna going to help
you understand how creative they are
how professional they're going to be
with clients um i'd also add that
in my opinion anyway and i've had a few
debates with people on this over
linkedin that
sales people should be creating their
own content
so be that blogs be that videos be that
podcast be that linkedin post
and we shouldn't rely purely on
marketing to give us leads
we should be actively generating our own
leads um so i don't care if it's cold
calling email
but with digital the way it is now it's
so easy to start creating your own copy
content doing linkedin posts doing
videos doing podcasts whatever it may be
to
get the engagement build the trust and
start inbound opportunities coming your
way
so i guess it helps a bit in terms of
showing how how good they're going to be
at that how well they're going to be
able to craft emails
um in terms of the way they actually put
words together how they can reach out to
people
so yeah i love that it's really
interesting and a unique um spin that
i've not heard on
okay cool and one other thing on that
that role shabri
so it sounds like you're working with
clients all over the shop so
many different countries um now
i at webchoice we sell digital marketing
solutions so i deal with mainly uk
and then we sometimes have clients
around europe and us and
probably about 80 of our client bases uk
with a few other countries in between
so would you say there's much of a
difference between selling to
uk businesses to all the different
overseas um clients that you've dealt
with is it
much more difficult is it easier or tell
us a bit more about that
yeah so i think that the big differences
i've personally seen
are uk and some of the middle eastern
countries that i spent quite a lot of
time dealing with
um so i think the way they approach
sales there i think the way they
approach marketing they're very
different
so um you know they less engage less
with things like webinars
and and it's more about that kind of
face-to-face relationship
um even when we were doing events we
used to send you personalized
hand-delivered invites and was i think
it was just a lot more personal
so one of the things that you know when
i was running the fbr team in
um middle east was it was really easy to
get a meeting
because everyone wants to meet it's a
very relationship-driven culture
like everyone wants to meet but actually
the conversion then from meeting to
opportunities
was actually a lot lower and whereas i
find in the uk
you know it's harder to get a meeting
but the conversion's a lot higher
because i think people
are protective of their time and they
you know it's a genuine need or or
interest when they accept that
i think you know there's a similar
difference i think in the way we
approach sales with the us
as well um i know there's been during
lockdown of kind of uk versus the us
kind of debates and things like that and
but i i think that has
you know that's definitely something
that i've observed which is um
it's just a bit different in the way
that we sell and you know there's small
nuances like i think the us still
use voicemail a bit more than we do in
the uk i
you know and it's just small things like
that i think the video started in the us
a lot earlier than we started so i think
it's just they're a little bit more
advanced in some of those ways than than
we perhaps are in as
it relates to sales great okay well um
yeah i'd like to move on now to
the business your business sales works
um so be interesting to know a bit more
about
why you started that and uh when the
moment was you decided to go out on your
own
yeah so um it's been just over two years
now since i started sales works and when
i left finaster i realized what i really
enjoyed doing was
building and um optimizing
southwest and inside style teams and i
did it for
four of the regions i realized that's
what i really enjoyed doing so
um i decided that i would go and speak
to a couple of companies
i started interviewing and i realized
that there was a huge need for companies
to build this
i think what i was seeing was companies
were investing a lot more in digital
marketing
so a lot more marketing qualified leads
were being generated
and with that specialization of roles
was being
created as well so you know companies
who historically had sales people who
would do
from lead to close were looking at
building teams that would focus from
lead to opportunity and allowing their
account executives and account managers
to focus on
um closing and relationships but what i
saw was a lot of people putting up their
hand asking for help
and didn't really know how to do it and
and so that's when i decided to
um start sales work so for the first
nine months or so we were purely
consulting
and we worked with companies both in the
uk and us
on helping them either grow their team
or helping them build a team for the
first time so everything from
hiring to onboarding to process and at
salesworks we use
um the 4s framework so that skills
structure strategy
and systems and those are the four areas
that we believe need to be aligned for
a high performing sales team um so
where i say now about over a year ago
one of our clients asked us to build out
training programs for their
to their teams and um that's something
that i did at finastra but i'm
not a sales trainer and um and so i did
it and
what i realized was it was just a
completely different approach to self
training that i had had in the past
and personally i've had a bad experience
with self training with my teams in the
past
and i think it's one of those things
that has a bit of a bad reputation
because i think there are more people
that do it badly than do it well um
you know whether it was e-learning or
whether it was you know classroom style
learning i've probably spent you know
hundreds of thousands of dollars in
training my teams in the past and
not really seen a great roi and so
what i realized were the challenges of
training was um
implementation people just came back and
didn't do anything differently
very fragmented um and it was a one-off
event
right so um you know if you want to go
if you want to lose weight you don't
just go to the gym once
right and it's the same it's the same
research i wish you could do that
unfortunately
don't we all sad and so you know
so what i realized was things have to be
repeatable and they have to
they have to be an accountability so um
we built the sales works academy
um and all of our trainers are um are
practitioners so they're all
have recently been salespeople or sales
leaders because that was another thing
that i found with sales training was
someone with a sales rep 20 years ago
right and things as we look at digital
selling and things like that things have
just
dramatically changed and and so you know
i'd say over the last 14 15 months or so
and the business has shifted its focus
significantly to
the training side of things and and so
we run we build and run sales training
programs for companies
and that are interactive and practical
and um
that are repeatable as well so it's
training paired with one-to-one coaching
um
so it's a three-month program of
training and coaching and
and that's and that's been something
that we've seen um work
really really well and especially during
this pandemic um
you know we've shifted to remote and
then in may we recently got acquired by
a boston-based investment holding
company and
and that's really you know two sort of
main gains from that
one is um you know we've added the
number of practitioners
um and expanded the services we're able
to offer to our customers
so previously our training was um for
sdrs and inside sales
and now we've expanded training to
customer success account executive
and account managers um so really you
know we can work with
an entire commercial organization and
train them so they've got one standard
way of doing things
and so it's exciting for our customers
um and also it expands our geographical
reach as well
and so expanding into north america
especially for companies who've got a
sales team in north america
and the uk to be able to work with um
with companies um across that
geographical reach has been
has been great as well awesome so we've
covered some
some great stuff there and i loved the
fact that you said that sales training
is not a one-off thing
so just like if you're going to the gym
working out you can't just go once every
month
i hope you can get a six-pack hope
you're gonna get super lean or super
muscular whatever your goals are you
gotta go consistently
um so it's interesting you should say
that and also the point you raise that
the sales trainers that you you use you
employ are actually practitioners
so i'm sure we've uh we've all had a
sales train or heard about a sales
trainer that came in
told us about this massive deal they
closed about 10 years ago
and they haven't picked up the phone or
sent an email i've done any cold
outreach since
so um yeah that's great so in terms of
um
that training side of things um i'm sure
we've all had the story of
sales reps being employed kind of giving
their half a day or one day's training
they're just told to get on with it
um are there any any tips in terms of
what companies should not be doing
in terms of when it comes to sales
training so massive no-nos and then any
maybe two or three points on what they
definitely should be doing to
kind of keep their staff motivated
because sales is a tough gig right and
business in general it's hard to keep
your motivation and especially when
you've had a few bad days or bad weeks
it's uh it's sometimes tricky to get
that positive mindset going
and yeah i completely agree and it's
it's a good question so when we look at
the
like nose um you know don't
have a training where it's just a
trainer talking for eight hours at your
wrap
or whether it's let's say it's a manager
you'll manage doing the training
that's not gonna work like our attention
span is like
decreasing just like day by day with
just all the distractions that we have
um there is we we tend to remember
when we do something um when we do
something practical we will remember 30
of what we've been taught right 30 is
not very much
um when we when we aren't doing
something practical it dropped to about
15 20
so as practical as you can make the
training the more likely you are to
um the more likely you are to sort of
pick that up and remember it
um i think for leaders business owners
um the positioning of the training is
really important
right if you send someone a link to
e-learning and say you need to complete
this by friday
they're going to complete that as a tick
box exercise and you smile but the
number of times i've seen and heard that
right and that's why
you know nothing will change so i'll say
like oh my manager's asking me to do
this by friday i've got to get this done
they won't really understand the
importance and the why
um so having like just making that
purpose and
really really clear when you're doing
the training i think is really important
setting expectations and build some
accountability
that i think leaders and business owners
are accountable as well
and i think the role that they can play
is how do they
reinforce that so is it call coaching is
it deal coaching
is it just general coaching right you
can't just like
like say to your teams okay we'll go and
do the training and then i expect you to
hit your quota
like they business owners leaders all
have to play a role in that as well
so i think being hands-on being you know
looking at where the accountability lies
i think it's on both people
making trainings interactive as possible
um
and try and um you know now now we're
remote we don't
we don't do full one-day trainings
anymore we break the master weekly
sprints
so we do two-hour sessions and a kind of
high-intensity sessions
because we know people aren't going to
sit in front of a laptop
in the same way they would have done in
person for eight hours and take
everything in
um so you know there's i think there's
just some
things that people can do around making
sure that um
that training is consumable and it's
productive as well
yeah love that and i love the point you
made about the kind of hands on the
coaching side of things because like you
said a lot of training is just
read the material or go on the online
course take a few boxes
read a few things and you're done and
whereas if you've actually got someone
with you that's been in the trenches
done
done the work you're doing so whatever
like whether your sales development
or your business development or your
account manager whatever role you're
playing they've actually
done it and then they're with you
coaching whether it's your calls your
emails going through giving you tips
giving you insights and helping you
literally holding your hand to take you
to the next step that's that sounds so
much more powerful
so that really makes sense all right
shelby what i'm keen to get into
is um so you started the company in 2018
and it's been acquired now we're in 2020
so that's super fast that's some serious
growth so
i'd love to learn how you scaled it so
quickly and
i'm sure the audience everyone tuning in
would love to know some of the channels
that you've employed
be them offline um or be them digital
marketing
that have helped you see that growth so
quickly
yeah so i think what um i think what
really helped fuel the company
in the first year was all about um sort
of
building my network understanding the
industry a bit more
working on you know getting some um good
referenceable clients
under you know and sort of building that
value really really quickly
and in the second year when we realized
that
the value that clients wanted to see was
actually in training
and so i think pivoting toward that
quite quickly
um made quite a big difference i think
you know building our partner ecosystem
has been
um has been really valuable within the
first sort of that happened
actually at the start of the second year
so you know partnering with
um complementary companies so sales
lofts being one of them you know which
is
um you know has been great and sort of a
huge name in the self-engagement space
and you know we've got talent partners
we've got other people and tax back
providers
um and so that was um i think nailing
down the kind of
area and industry and networks we wanted
to be
visible in so and last year we also made
the decision to
be a sponsor for self-confidence which
is you know one of the
um one of the largest um networking and
events for b2b sas sales professionals
and so knowing that that was an industry
and network that we wanted to be
associated with
you know we made the decision that you
know whilst it was probably something
that i hadn't expected to do that early
on
we realized that that was you know a
huge win for us
so i think we took some risks and i
think placing
bets on um networks and industry events
and things like that i think has been
really important
um you know i think we were seeing a ton
of success
events and things like that we're at a
completely different
stage now so at the start of 2020 we
actually ramped up digital marketing and
we hired um a social media marketer to
focus on
um on channels and when i started sales
work
i knew that i wanted to create a ton of
content and blogs
articles and things like that what i
realized at the start of this year was
it was all associated to me so i wanted
to
focus on building up the brand awareness
of
um of sales work so um linkedin
instagram and twitter
and so having someone focus on that day
in day out
you know was really important just to
kind of build brand awareness
i always struggled to measure the roi
from brand because i think it's quite
difficult to do that
um but you know i think that that's
something that was important we're going
through a website rebrand right now and
refresh because
i think now the environment we're in
people are spending more and more time
on the digital assets that you provide
and so that's been really key for us to
focus
um and you know something that has been
a high priority for us during this time
excellent great to hear that you're
you're ramping up digital marketing um
so year one chevrolet you said it was
mainly about acquiring and getting on
board great clients
how did that happen did you already have
clients from previous roles that you had
relationships with that you were able to
bring on
or were you hitting it cold were hitting
cold calls emails referrals that kind of
stuff
or was it digital or talk us through a
bit more about how you were actually
able to bring these on clients on board
so everything that we did in the first
year we were fortunate that everything
was through referrals so it was either
people i had worked with in the past
and or it was through you know
connections and referrals and things
like that
and then when we started going to a lot
more events and investing in
events and sponsorships and speaking
events um you know in the first year i
spoke at five events
um globally which was something that i
decided to invest some more time in
just sort of building up brand and um
sort of you know building up that
thought leadership aspect as well
actually interestingly we only just
started outbound sales
in sales works two months ago so up
until now
everything has been sort of inbound um
referrals
and through and through things like that
so
we've just started that we've relied
quite heavily on digital marketing
and i think that you know we've just
started paid and
paid search and things like that so
we're kind of
i think we're in a different space now
than we were six months ago
and so now right now it's just kind of
av testing what works what doesn't work
and and then we'll be able to double
down on some of those
some of those strategies awesome okay so
it sounds like a bit of a multi-channel
approach a lot of referral based
and now kind of moving more into
outbound looking at the digital channels
um
and a few few things like networks
networking events sponsoring events
and um public speaking which is
interesting as it's
i think only one or two guests we've had
on the show so far have said that's been
quite a good channel to generate
business
is that something you had quite a bit of
success with um chevrolet
i think it's been successful for
building
connections and building you know
sort of your brand awareness and
building your credibility
in that space sure i think one of the
things that i
realized when i when i left financial i
realized that i hadn't done a lot of
industry related stuff i had every event
i went to was one of finaster's events
for example if i hadn't done a lot of
image-related stuff so i realized that i
needed to
build credibility with a different
network and
um sort of position myself as somebody
who was an expert in this field in a
sort of different sphere
um and so it has built
um it's actually built yeah it's built
relationships in itself
um credibility um i don't know if i can
say
um a lot of them built you know sort of
directly lead generation
um or if they have it's not been
immediate it's been you know
i'm you know i'm talking someone now who
said i saw you speaking an event last
year
so it's not been immediate but i think
that's okay
makes sense and that's that's quite
often the case with with things in
digital as well
it's like linkedin over time you're
building your credibility with content
and you might not have ever spoken to
someone and they might have been
following you for a year six months
whatever
and then they reach out to you say look
i've been seeing your posts on x on y
and zed i can see that you know what
you're talking about then they reach out
to you
lead or much the same with with paid
advertising or seo
it might be that someone keeps seeing
your brand in front of them and over
time they've got that trust that they're
then ready to take the step
and um include you cool okay we'll cover
some great ground chubby um
now for anyone that's listening and
tuning in that's thinking of taking the
jump
and starting off on their own and
building their own business have you got
any tips or insights
that might make their first few weeks or
months a little bit easier
um in terms of um yeah any golden
nuggets advice really for anyone that
wants to take the jump
okay golden nuggets or advice um
i think my first golden nugget would be
like
take a risk right a lot of people that i
speak to you so
you know thinking about going off on my
own i don't know if i can do it i don't
know if i should do it
ask yourself what's the worst that could
happen right even if you do it for three
months and it doesn't work and you end
up doing a bit of consulting and you go
back to something else like
that's not a bad outcome um you know i i
say no one wakes up saying i want to be
an entrepreneur
people wake up wanting to fix the
problem so
ask yourself what problem is it that
you're trying to fix
because if you're not trying to fix the
problem then
ask yourself you know who who's your
ideal customer profile going to be what
are you what are you trying to do
so kind of get that why out first would
be my first tip
um my second tip would be surround
yourself with good people right whether
that's
partners or um or sort of you know
formal colleagues or whoever that might
be because it can be quite lonely at the
start you know i went from a ten
thousand person company to
just me um and i think that was the
biggest adjustment not having a manager
or not having you know peers or
colleagues kind of bounce ideas off to
surround yourself with the good people
um and you know i think also it it is
difficult but that doesn't mean that
it's not going to work so and i think
just
sort of keeping that um
keeping that sort of morale high because
it is all on you
and you know i didn't take the holidays
for the first 11 months right it is all
on you because if you don't do something
then it's not going to get done but i
think take that risk
um and i think you know sort of
celebrate your successes as well and i
think i didn't really do a lot of that
in the first year
and i landed some amazing clients and i
don't really think i
stepped back to celebrate that and i
think that's really
um i think that's really important
awesome
okay so yeah take take the risk i guess
the worst that can happen like you say
is you can do a bit of consultancy or
whether depending on your industry
and most in most cases you can you can
go back and you can find a role if it
doesn't work out after a few months so
that's that's interesting
um and then surrounding yourself with
great people is that is that more in
terms of kind of partners or that in
terms of people that you're actually
going to be working together with
or um yeah can you tell us a bit more
about that sort of thing shall we
yeah so i think it's i think it's two
things so i think firstly
growing your network so um you know
things like attending webinars or going
to events or you know joining
different communities and you know
actually building your
your network and so you know
and i sort of made a thing that anytime
i meet someone i try and grab a coffee
with them and just
you know just try and spot what's out
there and who's out there and things
like that
and i think the other thing is you know
grow your ecosystem so find out
who are the partners and companies that
you might be able to work with
that you know might be targeting similar
people to you but be doing a completely
different
product or service so how can you build
those ecosystems where you have
referrals and you have partners and
alliances and things like that
got it good stuff and shabby would like
to ask everyone that comes on
if you could thank just one person
either dead or alive having a positive
influence on yourself
and your career who would that be and
why
great question i never know that before
um
i think i'd say my father i think i'd
say my dad and
i my dad started his own business um
about 30 years ago and so i think
seeing his work ethic and and his
entrepreneurial flair
um has had a huge impact on me and i
think led me to um
to where i am today great stuff well
everyone you've been tuning in to sam's
business growth show where we sit down
business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story how
digital marketing has helped along the
way and they're exclusive tips and
insights to help you skyrocket
your business chabrium tell us a bit
more about your business
and the best way people can get in touch
with you and connect with you
great so um as i've talked about on this
podcast
and salsa works works and focuses on
self-team development so through
consulting and training
and we're co-located in boston and
london
and so um if anyone would like to have a
chat and just bounce ideas and
share insights around what's working for
them and what's not working for them as
it relates to their sales team
and i'd love to have a chat and you can
find us
on salesforce.com connect with me on
linkedin and you can also find us on
twitter and instagram as well
awesome shabby thank you very much for
coming on thank you sam for having me my
pleasure
i appreciate it um i think there are a
couple questions we'll end the podcast
itself there
let's just see i think there's a couple
questions that came up in the chat
if anyone has got any quick questions
we'll just leave the chat running for a
couple minutes
if anyone's got any sales based um sales
training based or digital marketing
questions they want to run
by us we can go through those for the
next couple of minutes
um there's one question from angeline do
we recommend
a straight line system
so i don't know if you want to take that
shall we
yeah angelina thank you for your
question back um
i'm not sure what you mean by a straight
line system um
it could be um i think if i remember
right jordan belfort's got a selling
a selling platform or selling system
called the straight line system
so it could it could be that that's what
she means it could be that angeline is
talking about a a
specific selling system so like you've
got sandler selling or challenger cell
or whatever it may be
okay but yeah that's one i've only just
heard of to be fair so i couldn't say
whether that's a good or bad one to
follow
yeah is there is there a specific system
that you recommend um
shepard or is that one that you've you
employ or is it does it vary depending
on
on the company and things so i think it
depends a lot on the company and it
depends a lot on the product or service
they're selling so for more
um enterprise clients we definitely
recommend more of a
um solution selling challenge and sale
approach all of our training does
cover bits of the methodologies that
have really resonated with us over the
years there's some of these some of the
stuff
is you know quite similar some of the
final stuff i didn't particularly agree
with
so we and we kind of have a blended
approach of all the different
methodologies
cool cool okay good stuff um
that's mostly here
we had a good point from andrew earlier
which i quite liked when he was talking
about um
recruiting sales people talk about the
last deal you blew and
how they handled their questions so that
was quite a nice ad
uh so we've got here
uh actually no sir do you do your online
courses have tutor support
that's one for you chabri great question
angeline so
um we do have training that is um
a program and that program is paired
with one-to-one coaches so one-to-one
tutors and one of our coaches are online
we don't have online courses in the way
that they're e-learning
all of our courses are live um so
it's not self-guided they're all live
and then you have the option of having
coaching to supplement that
great stuff all right guys we'll keep it
open for another
minute or so if there's any other
questions in terms of sales in terms of
sales training in terms of digital
marketing
more than happy to run those three
and then we'll wrap things up
great great to see all the live
questions coming through
yeah it's been some some good feedback
emanuel said this earlier quite often
sales is more about
the way you can play with the customer
psychology rather than anything else
interesting thing
thanks for the feedback chef
thanks nisha for tuning in
and katie really like the recruiting
technique thanks very much katie
thank you katie
and thanks anna for tuning in
cool all right well i think we'll wrap
it up there shabri so um
yeah thanks very much for coming on and
uh yeah thanks everyone for tuning in
we'll um we'll have another show coming
up in the next few days
thank you for having me sam thank you so
much it's great to be on
cheers take care